Thank you very much.
I'd like to thank all of you for
taking the Advil this morning after
the beer bash and coming on out to
hear our quick time for Java talk.
We have some exciting new
features that we're going to be
showing tonight or this morning,
excuse me.
I think it's still last night.
We're also going to have Anat come up a
little bit later to show you how to do
some optimization on your code and to
use some programming methods for some
topics that are maybe somewhat less
understood or a little bit confusing.
We'll be showing that a little bit later.
Before I begin,
I'd like to start off by displaying
our names because I'm an egomaniac.
We're going to start out just summarizing
what QuickTime for Java is before
we go into some of the new features.
So we're going to start off by showing
you some of the new features that
we're going to be showing tonight.
We're going to start off by showing
you some of the new features that
we're going to be showing tonight.
So we're going to start off by showing
you some of the new features that
we're going to be showing tonight.
So we're going to start off by showing
you some of the new features that
we're going to be showing tonight.
QuickTime for Java is really based
on two separate technologies.
There's QuickTime, of course,
most of you here are
probably familiar with.
It's a mature cross-platform flexible
media framework that provides a number of
services that allow you to play movies,
play sounds, do virtual reality,
things like that.
And it's also based upon Java,
which is Sun Microsystems' fully featured
modern object-oriented language feature.
So it's featuring garbage collection,
the ability to deploy
your applet in a browser,
or to use the new Web Start features
that were brought to Java.
And you can also make use
of those features with your
QuickTime for Java application.
And the biggest key here is the
ability to deploy your application
in a cross-platform manner.
So what is it that QuickTime for
Java that's based on these
two technologies include?
Well, first of all, it's a very powerful,
as I mentioned,
it's cross-platform Java class library
that allows you to access the native
QuickTime runtime on your platform.
And it provides two
different types of services.
And the first,
and perhaps most primitive,
is the presentation of QuickTime C APIs,
so that from your Java applet or
application or Web Start application,
you can call the
QuickTime C APIs directly.
And we've organized
these in an obvious way,
and we've done a lot of work
on the Web Start application.
And we've also done a lot of work
We've done a lot of work on
the Web Start application.
And we've done a lot of work
on the Web Start application,
and we've done a lot of work
on the Web Start application.
And we've also done a lot of work
on the Web Start application,
and we've done a lot of work
on the Web Start application.
And then we've also done a lot of
work on the Web Start application.
And we've also done a lot of work
on the Web Start application.
So, we've done a lot of work on
the Web Start application.
And we've also done a lot of work
on the Web Start application.
And we've also done a lot
of work on the Web Start
Okay,
so let's talk about what platforms are
available to you as a Java developer.
We support Mac OS,
and we're referring there specifically
to the classic Mac OS 9 runtime.
That requires MRJ 2.1 and above.
We also work on Windows,
and that's all the slew of NT,
Windows 98, Windows 2000.
All those we support,
as long as you have a Sun-compatible GRE.
And we also are bundled on Mac OS X using
the Java 2 Standard Edition.
And the great thing about that
platform is that everything's
pre-installed for you,
so your users don't have to
install any additional software,
and you as a developer can depend on
those services being available to you.
So let's talk about now some of
the new features that are available
with QuickTime for Java that
are provided by QuickTime 6.
For those of you that have been
to previous QuickTime sessions,
you may have heard all this buzz
around MPEG-4 and the new video
features that are brought by that.
Additionally,
we've added support for new idle
manager routine that we're going to
be talking about in later slides.
But in addition to the
new 6 functionality,
we still have complete coverage
of the QuickTime 4 and 5 APIs,
as well as some additional
functionality and services.
And new in this release is support
on Windows for the JDK 1.4.
So those of you that are in that space
can now transparently use 1.4 without
any additional changes to your code.
So that's a nice feature.
Okay,
continuing on in the new feature space
is a new manager called the idle manager.
And what exactly does this
allow you to do as a developer?
Before I go into that,
I'd actually kind of like to summarize
the way things used to work before
this idle manager was introduced,
so that you can understand the
need for that new technology.
Previously in QuickTime,
applications that used QuickTime needed
to call a number of calls,
such as MCIsPlayerEvent to determine
if a specific event coming in on the
event loop is for the QuickTime player,
or MCIdle to allow QuickTime to have
some idle time to perform tasks such
as decompression or display of videos,
and movies, tasks, and task media.
And these calls were required to
be called on a periodic basis.
But the problem is that the
developer doesn't necessarily know
how frequently these calls need to
be called in order to provide enough
time for QuickTime to do its work.
And I'd also like to point out that
for QuickTime for Java developers,
occasionally these calls may
be called implicitly for you,
so you might not even realize
that they're being called
for you on your behalf.
So there was a lot of confusion here,
since it was difficult... for
the developer to determine how
often QuickTime needed time
to perform its operations.
So this is especially true in the case
of a movie where you have a wired sprite,
and the rate of the movie could be zero,
yet, for example,
if you had a fire effect that's
still animating even when the
rate of the movie is zero.
So you couldn't depend on
the rate to determine if you
needed to make these calls.
And so most developers would just pick
some delay time that seems reasonable,
and just call that routine,
those routines,
over and over and over again.
And this is a problem,
primarily because it's wasteful.
There'd be a lot of cases when
you'd call the idle routines,
and QuickTime wouldn't really
need the time to do any work,
so it would just sit there and you'd
be wasting valuable CPU processor time.
So in order to allay these problems,
we've introduced a new idle manager API.
And the whole purpose of this is
that you no longer have to look
into your crystal ball and say,
oh, when does QuickTime need time?
You can actually request
that from QuickTime.
Brilliant idea.
So what you do in QuickTime for
Java is from your movie object
you call getTimeUntilNextTask and
specify the scale that you wish
that time to be delivered in.
And you'd get a delay return to you.
And this allows you to determine exactly
when the next time QuickTime thinks
that it needs processing time.
If you wanted to, say,
in your movies task,
specify that same interval,
you then call taskAll with the delay that
was returned to you by the idle manager.
And then the tasker object
will use that new delay value.
There's also a mechanism whereby you
can register a callback with QuickTime,
and that's called the next
task needed sooner callback.
And the way that works is
you can tell QuickTime...
Okay, I know that you told me that
you didn't need any time for
the next five milliseconds,
but if you do,
here's this routine that you can call
to notify me that something came up,
you made a mistake,
and you need time more quickly
than you last reported to me.
So in order to set up that callback,
you implement the next
time-needed-sooner interface and
override the public execute method.
So a little bit more detail
about how that callback works.
To install a callback,
you call setNextPathNeededSoonerCallback,
say that five times fast,
and pass in your class that
implements that interface into it.
When QuickTime decides that
it needs additional time,
for example,
if a network operation happened or
if there was some kind of a callback
within that movie that fired,
and QuickTime decides, oh my god,
I need time more soon or sooner
than I previously reported,
it will go ahead and call
your callback for you.
and your execute method.
So to remove that same callback,
you call removeNextTaskNeededSooner
callback with the same callback.
And since you're specifying
a callback in that routine,
it's important to note that you
don't have to have just one callback.
You can install as many
of those as you want.
Okay, so now that we've talked
a little bit about that,
I'd like to talk about some
additional new features supported in
QuickTime for Java with QuickTime 6.
And that's primarily support for Flash 5.
Yay!
A lot of people were complaining
because there were some new... Yeah,
Ant over there,
he's just doing flips right
now because he loves Flash.
It enhances the action
syrup capabilities of Flash,
provides HTML text rendering,
XML data exchange,
and all sorts of other features
that people were clamoring about,
so we put it into QuickTime.
Additionally,
in QuickTime 6 is support for
variable bitrate sound compression.
Previously, you could play back a sound
that used VBR compression,
but you couldn't actually encode one.
Well, now you can.
Okay, so another brand new feature that
people have been clamoring about
a lot is support for QuickTime for
Java in a swing-based component.
So I'd like to talk about
that a little bit now.
What we've done is we've
added a new component.
And the reason for this is
that our previous component,
QTCanvas, was heavyweight.
And incorporating this into a swing
application was very problematic.
As you can see by the diagram here,
we have a QTCanvas that
is inside of a window.
And because it's a heavyweight component
on top of a lightweight component,
all the lightweight components
are being drawn over.
And that is somewhat undesirable
for people doing swing applications.
So what do you do now?
Well, now new in QuickTime for Java 6,
we have a new class, JQTCanvas,
which is a lightweight.
component.
Yay!
Thank you.
So this provides most of the
functionality of QT Canvas.
On Mac OS X, it's hardware accelerated,
so that enhances the frame rate.
And it's pretty easy to use.
And when I talk about providing most
of the functionality of the QT Canvas,
there are some caveats.
And those are primarily caused by
the fact that your drawing of the
movie is being done off-screen,
and then it has to be transferred
on-screen into a lightweight component.
And this introduces a lot
of the same limitations as
you have in the compositor.
Primarily, well,
you have a lower frame rate because
you have to do twice as much work,
draw off-screen, then copy on-screen.
And you also can't display
a movie controller in that,
simply because QuickTime can't
display movie controllers off-screen.
So you can't have that feature.
However, if you like,
you could either make your own
controller using lightweight components.
And tie those to your movie.
Or you could choose to detach
your controller and have that in
a heavyweight component elsewhere
where it wouldn't interfere with
your lightweight components.
And Anant will be talking about how
to do that later in the presentation.
So additionally,
all time-based clients that you
want to use in your lightweight
swing component need to implement
the drawing notifier interface,
because that's the mechanism whereby
the swing JQT canvas is told that it
has a frame that needs to be updated.
And examples of those classes
are SWCompositorMoviePresenter
and QTFectPresenter.
You can look in the Javadoc to see
which classes implement that interface.
So, how do you use jqt-canvas?
Well, it's remarkably similar to
using the regular canvas.
In fact, most of your code you can just
change by adding a little j
in front and it will work.
So, but for those of you that
have never done that before,
you create a new canvas,
jqt-canvas in this example,
using the same sizing parameters
and constraints as you used
with the previous component.
Set the client.
In this case,
we're using a movie player object.
Creating a new movie player,
associating a movie with it,
and then calling setClient on that.
And then we add the
JQT canvas to the frame.
In this case, you'll note that if you're
adding it to a J frame,
you need to get the content frame
first before you can add it.
And then if you're on Mac OS X,
there's a property called
useMacOSX acceleration.
And right now,
because we haven't had a lot of
feedback as to how well this works,
we set that by default to false.
Once we get feedback from
people that that's working,
we set that to false.
working fine,
then we'll probably make true the
default so you don't have to have this
Okay,
and what everybody loves most of all,
and I'm going to show a
demo of how this works.
Okay, so we have a little example here.
And what we have going on,
those of you might recognize
this as being a swing component
with J internal frames.
And as you can see here,
we have an internal frame
window here that we're moving
all around in the video.
Go ahead and change this
to something really big.
"All working just fine.
You also noticed it is a minimized,
reduced stat.
You can see the transparent
effects right over the movie here.
So it's truly compositing in
a swing component just fine.
Frame rate is great.
You can't really tell any difference
between that and something that
you'd see in a QuickTime player.
And even more fun..."
This is MPEG-4 playing
in a J internal frame.
Overlapping another internal frame,
not drawing on top, behaving correctly,
excellent frame rate.
This is about 900k bitrate, I believe.
So that's pretty neat to see that kind
of thing happening in a TrueSwing demo.
So it works.
Use it.
And please give us feedback.
If you see any cases where you
think something should be working
and you're having trouble,
let us know.
We're always looking at
those kind of things,
and we really do
appreciate your feedback.
Okay, continuing on for current
features in QuickTime for Java.
As I mentioned earlier,
we've provided a couple of enhancements,
such as the support for
the JDK 1.4 on Windows.
We will be having that on
Mac OS X once that's available.
This on Windows doesn't
require any API-level changes.
It's completely transparent to the user.
We have a new
Movie Media Handler support.
Excuse me.
So that if you have a movie
that includes other movies,
you can do that.
We have some additional getter and
setter calls on QTVR view parameter.
And we have a public constructor
for the sequence grabber output.
And now we support file names
with accent and characters.
Yay.
An additional bug fix,
which is high on people's list,
were some enhancements
for the Mac OS X dialogs.
There used to be a bug where if you
had a native dialog displaying in Java,
it would just be blank.
So for those of you that
are still seeing that,
try your Jaguar CD.
That's all fixed.
It's working great.
We also have a number of
fixes in the sequence grabber
so that that actually works.
You can have,
and let us know if you find a case
where you're still having problems
with that because we believe
it to be working correctly now.
You now can have a SGData proc added,
and the sequence grabber will call that
function when it records some data,
and that allows you to have
the opportunity to do some
editing or manipulating on
that data before it gets drawn.
And there's just some little
code here for those of you
that don't know how to do that.
You basically call setDataProc from
the sequence grabber and create
your own class which implements
the SGDataProc interface and
then override the execute method.
And you return an int which tells you
whether you changed the data or zero
if you didn't change any of the data.
So that all works now.
Still from the previous version,
QuickTime 5,
we have support for the presentation API.
This has been enhanced in QuickTime 6
so that you now can do MPEG-4 streaming.
And this API allows you to broadcast
from a sequence grabber source,
such as an audio device, microphone, CD,
or a video device, such as a DV camera.
We also have support now in
the API to pick another source,
such as a file that resides on
disk for the sequence grabber.
And that's all done through
the sourcer component,
and that's all there now.
So go ahead and try that.
Your broadcast can be unicast, multicast,
and it's user configurable
using a settings dialog.
Okay, so that's all I have.
Now I'd like to turn over the
presentation to Anant Sonone,
who is on the QuickTime for
Java engineering team,
and he's going to be talking about
efficient programming methods.
Thank you.
Anant?
Thank you very much, Michael.
That was a nice introduction to the
new QuickTime for Java 6 features.
Now, for the rest of the session,
I want to talk about certain issues
that the developers have raised
regarding QuickTime for Java in general.
And also, we're going to look at
certain programming tasks
that developers need to do,
and we're going to show how
efficiently we can program using
these QuickTime for Java APIs.
As you know, QuickTime is so massive,
QuickTime for Java certainly has
to support all those features,
and that makes QuickTime for
Java API also pretty big.
That is kind of confusing and sometimes
leads to certain programming ways for
developers which make it inefficient.
So the best way of doing this,
that is what I want to tell you.
Whoops.
All right.
The first topic that I've chosen to
talk about is the detached controller.
Now, actually,
before we dive into the details
of what a detached controller is
and how and why we should use it,
I want to introduce to those
newbies in the crowd as to
what movie controllers are.
So, movie controllers basically
present the user with an interface
for controlling the movie.
So what you can do is you can either
stop and start the playback of a movie,
you can jump within the time base of a
movie by clicking within the controller,
or you can even, you know,
play with the sound.
Not only that,
even if you see the picture
that's displayed over here,
that's the standard way in
which a controller is displayed.
The controller bar is always... It's
always beneath the movie content.
So this is the standard way a
movie will always be displayed
along with the controller.
There's no other place that the
controller can be displayed if
it's displayed in the standard way.
So now, if you want to basically change
the position of the controller,
place it in the top,
or you want to display it in some other
window besides the movie content itself,
you'll have to detach the controller.
And... That is where detached
controllers come into picture.
So, this is a pictorial representation of
how a detached controller will look.
You can see that the controller has been
detached from the movie content itself.
So, Spider-Man is happy to go in
some other window he wants to,
and the controller can
stay in some other window.
So let's now go further into
this and see when one would want
to use a detached controller.
When an application basically wants to
treat the movie content and the movie
controller as two graphical entities,
you would want to detach the
controller from the movie itself.
Not only that, by detaching it,
you have more than one advantage.
You can slave multiple movies
to a single controller.
So suppose the application has
multiple time bases running,
which are active,
and suppose you want to control all
these movies using a single controller,
you can do that.
You detach all the movies from
the controller and just have
one single controller placed,
which will control all the other movies.
By detaching the controller,
as Michael told you previously,
movie controllers have a constraint.
That is, they cannot be drawn off screen.
So they cannot be used
in a swing component.
So the only option remains
is to detach the controller,
place that controller in a different
heavyweight component like a
QT canvas in a separate window,
and place the movie content
in a swing component.
That way you can have the movie and the
controller in two separate windows and
display the movie in a swing component.
Not only that,
you can actually get rid of the
controller completely and have your own
custom controller to control the movie.
So here is some code over here which
shows you how to basically do that.
You create a QT canvas for
holding the controller.
And then you create the movie
controller itself by using
the movie controller class.
Pass it the movie that
you want to display.
Now, here's the important call.
Controller.setAttached false.
Here you're telling the controller that
I want you to detach from the movie.
Once you have detached the controller,
now you want to display this
controller in the canvas.
For that, you will need to pass this
controller to a drivable object,
which will basically display
the controller in the canvas.
For that, you need to create a QT player
object and pass it to the controller.
Then, once you have done that,
you will pass the QT player to
the canvas and set the client.
Now that's for the controller,
to display the controller.
The second part is to display the movie.
To display the movie, again,
you'll need a drawable object.
In this case, we're going to use a movie
player object and pass in the
movie that we need to display.
And again, similarly,
we'll set the client
for the movie canvas,
which we create and display
the movie player in there.
So let's see the demonstration of
how a detached controller would work.
So what you see over here is
three separate components,
all of them having their own time
basis and they're happily running.
So you have two movies over
here with their own controllers.
And now what you can do is
basically when I press this button,
detach it...
Okay, cool.
So what's done is it's basically detached
the controller from both the movies and
it's placed the controller on top of it.
And what you see is the first
movie is the master time base,
and the rest of the two
have been slaved to it.
So you saw in the beginning that the
second movie was much bigger in duration,
but now since it has been slaved
to the first movie time base,
it's all kind of like getting back
once the first movie stops playing,
and it goes back to the beginning.
And this is a good example of, you know,
slaving movies to each other and
using the attached controller
to control multiple time bases.
All right.
So the second topic of discussion
is playing a sound file.
Now,
why did we choose to discuss this one
is because one of the mistakes that
we have done previously is we actually
released some code in the SDK that
obviously played the sound file,
but that wasn't the right way
to play it or that wasn't the
most efficient way to play it.
We want to rectify that and show you
what is the best way of doing that.
So the previous example and documentation
recommended using a QTDrawable object.
In case of a sound file,
when you just want to play a sound file,
there's nothing to draw.
You're just going to play
some sound bytes over there.
But in the previous example,
we are using the standard way.
That is,
we recommended using a QTPlayer object,
and we also needed an
explicit call task on it.
This led to the fact that on Mac OS X,
since the QTPlayer was being not
set as the client of the canvas,
because we weren't using a canvas,
the movie controller that was being used
was getting set to an off-screen port,
and that was creating
a problem on Mac OS X,
and the movie controller was getting
drawn somewhere in the menu bar.
So there were these graphical artifacts
that we wanted to overcome as well.
So here is a better way
of playing a sound file.
What you do is open the movie
file that you want to play
using the movie.form file,
pass in the sound file to that.
Here's the important class over here,
task.movies class.
So basically, task.movies class,
what it does is it basically tasks all
the active time bases of the movies
that are present in an application.
So basically what you do is
whenever you have an active time
base that needs to be tasked,
you basically call task.movies
addMovie and start.
This will basically increment the counter
that the task.movies has and says that,
okay, I've got one client
which needs to be tasked.
And when you add another time,
it will basically increment the
counter and so on and so forth.
So this will provide those active
time bases with the task time
that's needed to process and play.
And then you basically call--
[Transcript missing]
All right.
So now we're going to look at
some different topic over here,
which is the wide action
or the wide sprite movies.
Over the last,
we have been having requests from
the developers regarding having
some way of creating wide action
movies using some QTJava APIs.
We have been working in this
direction to give you an interface
for the wide action movie APIs that
QuickTime currently provides.
We have been working in this
direction to give you an interface
for the wide action movie APIs that
QuickTime currently provides.
We have been working in this
direction to give you an interface
for the wide action movie APIs that
QuickTime currently provides.
Just to give you a brief introduction
as to what wide-action movies are,
movies that contain interactive
components are called wide movies.
Any movie with which you can interact,
basically click a mouse and get some
interaction from the movie content,
is called a wide movie.
What happens in a sense is,
user input is translated into events,
which can basically target
various components in a movie.
It can be the movie itself,
or a particular track in the movie,
or it can even target a particular
sprite in the sprite track of the movie.
What happens is,
events fire actions which modify certain
or particular properties of the target.
In case of a sprite, for example,
what you will do is change
the... image index of the sprite
that's currently being displayed.
And that way you can achieve the
interactive effect over there.
[Transcript missing]
Now, the keyframe samples,
the sprite track, the override samples,
all of these in QuickTime are represented
using the QTAtoms architecture.
So you can look at the movie as a whole,
as an entire hierarchy of
atoms and atom containers.
So the movie is a top-level
atom container which has the
sprite track atom container,
and sprite tracks has various
atom containers of keyframe
samples and so on and so forth.
So this is a complete tree of atom
containers which is basically passed by
QuickTime and the movie is displayed.
This holds true for any movie,
not just sprite movies.
So when normally using
the C QuickTime APIs that
are currently available,
what are the challenges
developers are facing?
As people who might have probably
used these C QuickTime APIs,
you would have understood the
amount of difficulty one has to go
through to understand those cryptic
and big API names themselves.
And the architecture in general itself
is pretty difficult to understand.
Not only that,
C QuickTime APIs are pretty tedious
to use because they have n number
of parameters and there are these
flags that you need to take care of.
And keeping that in mind is kind of
like a pretty daunting task to do it.
Using C APIs also makes your
application platform dependent.
And also, there are issues that
you need to take care of.
So if you're making a movie
for Windows or on Mac,
you have to take care of the issues.
These all things lead to
a major development curve.
So basically,
you have to invest time in reading
the material and understanding this,
and that is going to be a big overhead.
And if you're thinking of
using a third-party tool,
that probably might not be suited
for your kind of needs if you're
using it to do just small things.
So third-party tools can
prove to be expensive.
So, that is where QuickTime for
Java APIs that we are
introducing come into picture.
Reasons are, obviously,
those which QuickTime for
Java API leverage from Java,
which is the object-oriented model.
Our APIs are also set on those same,
excuse me,
on the same object-oriented model.
Using this, Java APIs make application
cross-platform.
So, you don't have to worry
about the Indian issues.
We are going to take care
of all the Indian issues.
You just run your application,
run it on Mac or Windows, any platform,
it will run the same and create movies,
or you can modify movies,
whatever you want, using those APIs.
So, people even coming from
the background of Java,
which don't have much exposure to see
QuickTime API or even understanding
of the QTAtoms architecture,
can use these classes to
create wire-sprite movies.
And, you know, you get kind of a jump
start using these classes.
So, obviously, this is leading to a very
small learning curve.
So let's go further and see
how these APIs can be used.
So we're going to look at an
example of how to create or
modify a wide sprite movie.
What you would do is basically
create a new movie file with
a single sprite track in it.
Then you make a single keyframe
sample containing the sprites
and all of the image data in it.
Then what you would do is basically
set the sprite track's properties.
So you can, as I told you,
even the sprite track
is an Atom container,
you can set the properties
for the sprite track.
Then you create override samples
as needed and override the
properties of the sprites that
were declared in the keyframe.
And then once you have done that,
you have to wire all these sprites.
And that is done by setting the actions
on the sprites for specified user events.
Keeping all that in mind and
the overall format of the Wired
Sprite track and the architecture,
we have laid out this
package of Wired Sprite,
which has grouped a bunch
of atom containers into
logical classes over here.
For example,
actionAtom basically represents
the actionAtom containers,
which holds the actions which are
targeting either the sprite or the track.
Image container, as the name says,
holds the images which are shared by the
different sprites in the sprite track.
Sample frame.
A sample frame either
represents a keyframe or it
represents an override sample.
So you can basically create a keyframe
or sample frame using this class.
And the rest of the classes
represent the sprite atom,
represent the individual sprites.
The sprite track atom basically
represents the sprite track in the movie.
And there are these utility classes
and other constant classes in there.
So let's look at how you can use these
classes to create the white sprite movie.
As usual,
you'll call the createMovieFrom file on
the movie class to create a new movie.
Now this is an empty movie which doesn't
have a resource yet and no track in it.
So follow that with the
movie.addSpriteTrack call,
which will basically add a
track to the sprite movie.
Then the track basically contains media.
So you will have to call new sprite
media and pass in the track for
which you want to create the media.
Now you have come to a point
where the actual action begins,
and you have to start adding the keyframe
samples and the override samples.
So we create a keyframe
sample using the sample frame,
and now to the keyframe you're going
to add the image data that you create
using the image container class.
And call the makeImageContainer.
That gives you an object which
you can call the addSpriteImageOn,
and you can add your images and pass in
the image information and the various
properties for the images to it.
So that will basically create the image
data bank for you in the keyframe sample.
Now, once you have created the
image data for the sprites,
you have to create the sprites itself.
That you do using the spriteAtom class.
So you create a new
spriteAtom and pass in the ID,
which is unique for every sprite
that's in the keyframe sample.
And as I told you,
sprites have different properties.
And in the keyframe, as I said,
you have to define the initial scene,
so you have to set the
initial properties.
And that is done using
the setProperties call.
So you have set, for example,
setImageIndex will set the image index,
setGraphicsMode will
set the graphics mode.
So these are the different properties,
and we have all these set
actions on the spriteAtom class,
which will help you set
all these properties.
Then you move on to create the
actual actions that will be
attached to the sprite itself.
So what you do is,
you create these actionAtom
using the actionAtom class.
And again,
using the setAction methods and
passing in the event on which
you want to fire the action,
you call the setAction.
For example,
you can fire a setVisible action method
on the sprite and pass in the event,
for example, on mouseEnter,
I want the sprite to be visible.
So you say spriteAction dot set
spriteVisible and pass in the
event and the action itself.
And the data, which is either I want to
make it visible or invisible.
And finally, when you have made a bunch
of these actions together,
you can basically set all these
actions on the sprite by calling the
setAction method on the spriteAtom
class and passing the action
object that you have created.
Once we have done that,
now you want to add the sprite atom.
Then you call the
keyframe.addSpriteAtom and pass in
the sprite that you have created.
So image container and the sprites,
as I said, is a part of the keyframe,
so you have to add the sprites
to the keyframe as well.
So this is, in short,
how you would create a keyframe
sample and add the images and the
actions and the sprites to that.
So internally,
what we are doing behind the scenes,
what we are doing is basically
handling all the QTAtoms calls
for you and creating all these
container hierarchies for you,
which will basically represent
these actions and sprites.
Once you have done that,
you'll go on to create
the override samples,
similar to the way you have
created the keyframe samples.
And then you will, again,
override the properties of the individual
sprites that you want to animate or
want to have some action done on it.
So, mind you, override frames just
override the properties.
They don't contain any actions as such.
Then finally,
you add the keyframe and the
overhead samples to the media.
So these are the samples that you
basically add to the media and that you
do using the spriteTrack.insertMedia and
pass in the media to the spriteTrack.
Another class that I talked
about is the sprite track atom,
which you would use to set the
properties on the sprite track.
Again,
you have the different set properties
calls on the sprite track atoms,
which you can set the
properties for the sprite track.
You finally set the properties of
that sprite track on the media.
Once you have done
doing all these things,
you're ready to save it to a movie.
You call the add movie resource
to the movie and save the movie.
This is how you would basically
create a wire sprite movie.
All right, so talking of all this,
one would wonder how much effort one
has got to take while doing all this.
I would say as compared to the
C QuickTime APIs for widespread movies,
one would have to take very
minimal effort over here.
Now,
this is what I'm going to demonstrate
using this example that I have over here.
The time that I've
invested in this example,
which basically shows you
how to create a movie,
a widespread movie,
and also modify that movie
dynamically and save it back,
this all might seem to be very easy.
But if you are a C programmer
and you've used a C API,
you'll understand how much time and
effort it would take to create a movie.
But using these classes,
it's going to simplify
your life for the better.
So let's see.
So what I'm going to do is
basically create a widespread movie.
So I'm going to save it.
So what it has done is,
I have a bunch of images over here,
and I've created two sprite atoms
over here with initial properties.
And this is the keyframe that has been
displayed with the initial properties.
Now, I've added some actions,
like on mouse center,
I'm able to change the property
of the sprite and have some
animating effect over here.
And now, when I click on it,
it's basically targeted the other
sprite and told to start animating it.
So the override samples
come into picture.
I set the movie rate to 1,
and it'll start animating the sprite.
This is what a widespread
movie looks like.
Now, while this is running,
I would want to-- if somebody
has an existing widespread movie,
he can also basically
pass that widespread movie
Modify it.
So this is the structure
of the sprite track.
It basically has sprite track atoms,
which has the properties
that you can see.
You have the image container atom in it.
You have two sprite atoms in
it with the initial properties.
You see all these action events,
actions for the events that we have set.
These are the initial
properties for the sprite,
atom number two.
And all this has been done using my APIs.
It basically goes, you have these get
methods on these atoms,
and you can get these properties easily.
And now what I'm going to do is
basically just modify these properties.
Say I want to
location for that.
I want to change the initial
image index for the sprite item 2,
which is the sprite in the bottom.
And I want to save it back.
So, I'm going to save it back.
That's it.
So there you go.
So this was the initial position.
I have dynamically, using my object,
changed the sprite location and
even changed the image index,
and the rest of the
movie remains the same.
So this is all done using
the QuickTime for Java API.
And these can be used
on Windows and Mac OS X,
respectively.
Another issue that has often come
on the mailing list is regarding the
QuickTime for Java installation process.
We have been getting a lot
of questions regarding this,
so we thought it would be
nice to address this issue.
So the QuickTime for Java standard
installation procedure.
Let's look at Mac OS X.
Well, you don't need any installation
because it's already
pre-installed on the machine.
It's all there for you to use.
So just go ahead and
use the Mac OS X system.
You have QuickTime for Java installed
for you in the right place.
On Mac OS 9,
to install QuickTime for Java,
you need to use the QuickTime installer,
and you need to select
the custom install,
and you do a select all,
and that will install the
QuickTime for Java pieces in
the write directory of MRJ.
For Windows, well,
we have been having a lot of
grief regarding this platform for
installation as all these varied
VMs and all these registry entries
that we need to take care of.
And that's where we have invested a
lot of time and a lot of efforts in
making sure that the installation
for QuickTime for Java works fine.
So the standard installation
on Windows basically would
be to do it in certain steps.
First,
you install the Sun-Java compatible VM.
We don't support any other
VM which is not 100% Sun-compliant.
Once you have installed the Java VM,
you have to install QuickTime and, again,
do a custom install with
a select all option in it.
So this sequence of installation is very
important over here because otherwise,
if you don't have Java installed,
QuickTime wouldn't know where
to install the QuickTime for
Java pieces so that your applets
and application will run properly.
So this is the proper
sequence of installation for
QuickTime for Java on Windows.
So we decided that besides this,
there are some other issues revolving
around QuickTime for Java installation
if developers are releasing applications
with their own private VMs and we have to
basically deal with those issues as well.
So,
you can license the QuickTime installer
itself by going to this
[Transcript missing]
So there are two ways of
writing a custom installer.
Either you license the
individual pieces of QuickTime.
So there are three pieces in QuickTime,
the DLLs-- sorry,
the DLLs and the library.
We have facilitated the developers or
the application writers to basically
license the individual pieces.
So what we do is we
give the pieces to you,
and you can then basically take care of
installing the pieces wherever you want
so your applications can run properly.
In case of private Java VMs, as I said,
the standard installation for
QuickTime for Java won't be able
to find the private Java VM that
the application uses because we
basically look for registry entries,
and private Java VMs don't
have registry entries.
And that leads to problems of where
to put the QuickTime for Java pieces.
Besides that,
you can also modify the .ini file for
the standalone QuickTime installation.
The .ini file is a quicktime installer in
which you set the QTJava = true variable,
and that will basically tell
QuickTime installer that if you
find this variable set to true,
just go ahead and install QuickTime for
Java pieces in the right directory.
All right, so that's for it that I have.
This is the contact information we have
for developer support and information.
This is the roadmap.
We have the QuickTime feedback
forum going on right now,
actually, in which they're discussing.
And we have all these other sessions.